fractals/sirens-reef/index.md, before:

---
cycle: Day
date: '2022-02-01T02:46:24.744Z'
title: Siren's Reef
description: You want off this rock? Find that cursed treasure and commandeer us a ship.
image: ./images/header.jpg
group: T4
api: 4494
bosses: 3
difficulties:
  - level: 78
    ar: 111
sigils:
  - id: 24868
  - id: 24615
consumables:
  - 8764
  - 8801
record: null
---

<Grid>
<GridItem sm="12">

## Start: Wipe out the dinosaurs!

When you enter the fractal, first you need to kill 2 _Veteran Bristlebacks_, 2 _Veteran Smogscales_ and 1 _Veteran Bonebreaker_. After you killed them, you need to move to the rock wall to kill the _Champion Stonehead_. Break his breakbar to kill it easily. After killing it, he will <Condition name="Fear"/> you back and die in the mines. Use the cannon to clear out the mines to gain access to the next encounter.
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Scenary in the starting area](images/sirens_mountains.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![The shipwreck](images/sirens_shipwreck.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="12">

## The Forgotten Fortress

Prestack boons on the _Mistlock Singularity_ nearby.

Kill the ghosts to start the encounter.

_Blast Black Peter_ the skeleton boss is kind of a DPS-race. He starts spawning many minions by the end of the encounter so you can wipe easily. He spawns mines which you can blow up with the cannon on top. The boss periodically gains <Boon name="Swiftness"/> <Boon name="Protection"/> and <Boon name="Stability"/> so removing it is priority and a key to kill him fast. He has a breakbar, too, so breaking it as fast as possible also helps.
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Ghosts of the fortress](images/sirens_blasting_black_peter.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Way to the maze](images/sirens_way_to_cave.jpg)
</GridItem>
</Grid>

---

<Grid>
<GridItem sm="12">

## The Maze

### The treasures

Your objective is simple. You need to collect 3 treasures and carry them to the treasure chest at the end of the cave. There will be moving AoEs spawning enemies if you move into it. If you touch the treasure, you will gain a debuff that slows you down significantly, to move the treasure fast, throw the item at each other moving towards the treasure chest.

> <Effect name="Superspeed"/> overrides the slow inflicted by holding a treasure chest.

</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Revealing AoEs](images/sirens_cursed_treasure.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Cursed treasure](images/sirens_cursed_treasure_sack.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![The treasure chest](images/sirens_cursed_chest.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">

### The way to the ship

Here you have to get the chest onto the ship by throwing the treasure chest at each other, same tactic as before. You can use the _Mistlock Singularity_ at the entrance to reset your cooldowns. If you happen to be in combat (you triggered the AoE circles) then just skip it and take it when you '/gg' before you fight Arabella Crowe (it is to reset mobs from the previous event and to start with no cd and fresh boons).
</GridItem>
</Grid>

---

## The Ship

<Grid>
<GridItem sm="6">

### Retrieve the second treasure

You need to get a chest again, now from one of the shores (random which one). Use same tactic as before, throw the chest across. There are 2 cannons each side of the ship, use it to clear mobs easily. After recovering the treasure the first mini boss spawns named _Mad Jack Squall_. During the boss there will be AoEs across the ship that blows players down the ship into the poisonous water. These AoEs cannot be ignored with <Boon name="Stability"> so avoid standing in them to stay on the platform. Kill him to start the next objective.</Boon>

### Retrieve the third treasure

You need to get the chest once again from one of the shores. Use same tactic as before, throw the chest across. Use cannons to clear mobs.

After recovering the treasure the second mini boss spawns named _First Mate Calix_. During the boss there will be a new mechanic that spawns AoE on the player furthest away from the boss, place this AoE outside the fighting zone. The knockoff mechanic from Mad Jack Squall is present as well. Kill him to start the next objective.

It will be a point capture event, you need to stay alive long enough to kill all mobs coming from the two sides of the ship. Use the cannon to clear most of the ghosts. After the event is done, the main boss spawns.

### Captain Arabella Crowe

Use `/gg` to reset mobs on the ship and use the _Mistlock Singularity_ to stack boons. The two mechanics from before, the knockoff and AoE are present in this fight as well as a third one. It is an AoE placed on a player with a timer. If the circle fills, huge damage is dealt to the player, but you can split up the damage between players, to counter this mechanic simply stack in the circle to split up the damage dealt to each player. The boss will be teleporting around as well as spawning mobs every 10% health of the boss. Kill her to finish the fractal.

<Tabs>
<Tab specialization="Scourge">
You can use <Skill name="Corrosive Poison Cloud"/> to block the projectiles and <Skill name="Spectral Grasp"/> to pull enemies to you.
</Tab>
<Tab specialization="Guardian">
Use <Skill name="Wall of Reflection"/> to keep enemy projectiles from hitting your group. <Skill name="Chapter 3: Valiant Bulwark"/>, <Skill name="Chapter 4: Stalwart Stand"/> and <Skill name="Epilogue: Unbroken Lines"/> are helpful here for <Boon name="Stability"/> and <Boon name="Resistance"/>.
</Tab>
<Tab specialization="Renegade">
You can use two different legends here (in addition to your default one, <Skill name="Legendary Renegade Stance"/>).
1. <Skill name="Legendary Dwarf Stance"/> will help your group from being interrupted with <Skill name="Inspiring Reinforcement"/> which grants <Boon name="Stability"/>.
2. <Skill name="Legendary Centaur Stance"/> will block the enemy projectiles which hurt a lot and apply conditions.
</Tab>
</Tabs>
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Final encounter on a ship](images/sirens_ship.jpg)
![Mad Jack Squall](images/sirens_mad_jack_squall.jpg)
![First Mate Calix](images/sirens_first_mate_calix.jpg)
</GridItem>
</Grid>

Commit message:

feat: add fractal edits for header and frontmater

fractals/sirens-reef/index.md, after:

---
cycle: Day
date: "2022-02-01T02:46:24.744Z"
title: Siren's Reef
description: You want off this rock? Find that cursed treasure and commandeer us a ship.
long_description: "Ahoy there, mateys! Prepare to set sail for the Siren's Reef Fractal, a once tropical paradise. now a cursed island of doom and the final resting place of the notorious pirate queen, Captain Arabella Crowe! Those who dare to set foot on the island are doomed to join Crowe's ghostly crew, and you are no exception. Stranded on the island, gather all of the cursed pirate treasure and defeat Crowe's crew as you race against time to escape the island aboard the Kraken's Pride."
image: images/header_old.jpg
group: T4
api: 4494
bosses: 3
difficulties:
  - level: 78
    ar: 111
sigils:
  - id: 24868
  - id: 24615
consumables:
  - 8764
  - 8801
record: null
layout: src/layouts/Fractal.astro
hasCM: false
---

<Grid>
<GridItem sm="12">

## Start: Wipe out the dinosaurs!

When you enter the fractal, first you need to kill 2 _Veteran Bristlebacks_, 2 _Veteran Smogscales_ and 1 _Veteran Bonebreaker_. After you killed them, you need to move to the rock wall to kill the _Champion Stonehead_. Break his breakbar to kill it easily. After killing it, he will <Condition name="Fear"/> you back and die in the mines. Use the cannon to clear out the mines to gain access to the next encounter.
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Scenary in the starting area](images/sirens_mountains.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![The shipwreck](images/sirens_shipwreck.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="12">

## The Forgotten Fortress

Prestack boons on the _Mistlock Singularity_ nearby.

Kill the ghosts to start the encounter.

_Blast Black Peter_ the skeleton boss is kind of a DPS-race. He starts spawning many minions by the end of the encounter so you can wipe easily. He spawns mines which you can blow up with the cannon on top. The boss periodically gains <Boon name="Swiftness"/> <Boon name="Protection"/> and <Boon name="Stability"/> so removing it is priority and a key to kill him fast. He has a breakbar, too, so breaking it as fast as possible also helps.
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Ghosts of the fortress](images/sirens_blasting_black_peter.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Way to the maze](images/sirens_way_to_cave.jpg)
</GridItem>
</Grid>

---

<Grid>
<GridItem sm="12">

## The Maze

### The treasures

Your objective is simple. You need to collect 3 treasures and carry them to the treasure chest at the end of the cave. There will be moving AoEs spawning enemies if you move into it. If you touch the treasure, you will gain a debuff that slows you down significantly, to move the treasure fast, throw the item at each other moving towards the treasure chest.

> <Effect name="Superspeed"/> overrides the slow inflicted by holding a treasure chest.

</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Revealing AoEs](images/sirens_cursed_treasure.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Cursed treasure](images/sirens_cursed_treasure_sack.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![The treasure chest](images/sirens_cursed_chest.jpg)
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">

### The way to the ship

Here you have to get the chest onto the ship by throwing the treasure chest at each other, same tactic as before. You can use the _Mistlock Singularity_ at the entrance to reset your cooldowns. If you happen to be in combat (you triggered the AoE circles) then just skip it and take it when you '/gg' before you fight Arabella Crowe (it is to reset mobs from the previous event and to start with no cd and fresh boons).
</GridItem>
</Grid>

---

## The Ship

<Grid>
<GridItem sm="6">

### Retrieve the second treasure

You need to get a chest again, now from one of the shores (random which one). Use same tactic as before, throw the chest across. There are 2 cannons each side of the ship, use it to clear mobs easily. After recovering the treasure the first mini boss spawns named _Mad Jack Squall_. During the boss there will be AoEs across the ship that blows players down the ship into the poisonous water. These AoEs cannot be ignored with <Boon name="Stability"> so avoid standing in them to stay on the platform. Kill him to start the next objective.</Boon>

### Retrieve the third treasure

You need to get the chest once again from one of the shores. Use same tactic as before, throw the chest across. Use cannons to clear mobs.

After recovering the treasure the second mini boss spawns named _First Mate Calix_. During the boss there will be a new mechanic that spawns AoE on the player furthest away from the boss, place this AoE outside the fighting zone. The knockoff mechanic from Mad Jack Squall is present as well. Kill him to start the next objective.

It will be a point capture event, you need to stay alive long enough to kill all mobs coming from the two sides of the ship. Use the cannon to clear most of the ghosts. After the event is done, the main boss spawns.

### Captain Arabella Crowe

Use `/gg` to reset mobs on the ship and use the _Mistlock Singularity_ to stack boons. The two mechanics from before, the knockoff and AoE are present in this fight as well as a third one. It is an AoE placed on a player with a timer. If the circle fills, huge damage is dealt to the player, but you can split up the damage between players, to counter this mechanic simply stack in the circle to split up the damage dealt to each player. The boss will be teleporting around as well as spawning mobs every 10% health of the boss. Kill her to finish the fractal.

<Tabs>
<Tab specialization="Scourge">
You can use <Skill name="Corrosive Poison Cloud"/> to block the projectiles and <Skill name="Spectral Grasp"/> to pull enemies to you.
</Tab>
<Tab specialization="Guardian">
Use <Skill name="Wall of Reflection"/> to keep enemy projectiles from hitting your group. <Skill name="Chapter 3: Valiant Bulwark"/>, <Skill name="Chapter 4: Stalwart Stand"/> and <Skill name="Epilogue: Unbroken Lines"/> are helpful here for <Boon name="Stability"/> and <Boon name="Resistance"/>.
</Tab>
<Tab specialization="Renegade">
You can use two different legends here (in addition to your default one, <Skill name="Legendary Renegade Stance"/>).
1. <Skill name="Legendary Dwarf Stance"/> will help your group from being interrupted with <Skill name="Inspiring Reinforcement"/> which grants <Boon name="Stability"/>.
2. <Skill name="Legendary Centaur Stance"/> will block the enemy projectiles which hurt a lot and apply conditions.
</Tab>
</Tabs>
</GridItem>

<GridItem sm="6">
![Final encounter on a ship](images/sirens_ship.jpg)
![Mad Jack Squall](images/sirens_mad_jack_squall.jpg)
![First Mate Calix](images/sirens_first_mate_calix.jpg)
</GridItem>
</Grid>
